---
title: "tokens"
bg: red
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

# Kudos: true reputation, decentralized.

## A social currency layer over the current social internet, allowing you to send "kudos" to any social media post.  

A truly decentralized platform needs a truly decentralized attention economy, one that takes in account its decentralized nature and is designed to limit the negative phenomena whitnessed in today's social media -astroturfing, 'likes for money', click farms and the likes, while promoting content quality and thoughtful user engagement. 

## *Why* 

### Mainstream Social Media 

* Force you to log on to their platforms to interact and incentivise authors, which have to multiply their efforts in order to be noticed while remaining compliant with reputation algorithms which are constantly changing. 

* Utilise an 'attention economy' prone to manipulation, where reputation can be bought against money.  

## *What*

###The Kudos experience module introduces a social currency token (Kudos) to the platform, which is used to comment, upvote and downvote content. 

This token is non-fungible; it has no corresponding value, cannot be bought and cannot be exchanged. 

## *How*

### Usage

* On sign-up, each user is allowed a fixed amount of Kudos.
* When a user upvotes content, a certain amount of *Kudos is sent to the content's author.
* When a user comments, or downvotes content, a certain amount of Kudos is burnt. 
* The more kudos are held on an account's balance, the more it costs to perform the above actions. 
* If a user's balance reaches 0, it is refilled with a certain amount of Kudos after a 48 hours following the user latest action. 

### Metrics

The based metrics that can be collected by the Kudos experience module are as follows: 

* Content upvotes and downvotes
* Authors current Kudos balance
* Authors lifetime kudos received

Given those metrics, it is possible to extrapolate several kind of insights, for instance: 

* Author's popularity (Kudos - downvotes) 
* Author's controversy ratio (Kudos / downvotes)
* Author's popular authority (Score where kudos received are weighted by the popularity of the sender)

Used together with content filtering, those insights will be applicable by authors or topics over a chosen time period in order to determine, for instance, the popular authority of a given user over  a certain topic, or the popularity of a topic within the platform. 

## *Expected Outcomes*

### Increased content quality 
Having to spend Kudos adds an accountability dimension to user interaction, by promoting users having to think twice about their choices before performing an action. 

### Organic and relevant reputation management
Metrics an insights extracted from Kudos spendings and balances allows for organic, traceable and verifiable insights, while drastically limiting reputation manipulation via commercial transactions. 

### Bad behavior mitigation
The limited supply of Kudos makes it impossible to significantly influence the popular authority of an author by creating a large amount of new account, while at the same time also prevents serious artificial increase in popularity or controversy.

# Myria: Tipping, decentralized.

## A monetization layer over the current social internet, allowing you to send "kudos" to any social media post. 

## *Why* 

Mainstream Social Media force you to log on to their platforms to interact and pay with creators, and may prevent certain creators from monetizing their content. 

## *How*

A blockchain provides the ability for users to send "Myria tokens" to certain posts, even if the post creator is not yet on Myriad.Social. The Myria tokens would be locked by a smart contract until the post creator creates an account and proves her ownership of the post. 

Proof-of-Ownership does *not* have to be provided via SSO (Single-Sign-On). Instead, the platform provides a passphrase that needs to be inserted by the claimant within 24 hours into the related post. Myria would only be unlocked once the passphrase is posted.
